Well today I'd like to work on these straps here.
The straps going over the torso around the side.
Maybe even the belt here.
And what I'd like to do is use Blender's read typology tools to do this.
We can use the B surfaces plug in and we can also use the snapping tools to do this as well.
Now I'm going to be going over all of these tools again once we get to read apologizing the character
as a whole wants the sculpting and modeling is all done.
But I thought I'd kind of do a little preview here and frankly refresh my memory on the tools it's been
a while since I've used them.
So let's take a look at how we might create this strap over the character's shoulder here.
We could of course take a polygon and extrude it around or try and make a cylinder and rotate it and
adjust it until we get it to fit.
But I think the B surfaces plug in is a lot easier to work with for something like this.
So when I say that these services plug in what do I mean.
Well let's if we go to file and user preferences and if we come over here to add ons the BE services
plug in should be part of the blender install now.
So if I type in the surf in the search field here you can see it brings up the services GPL EDITION.
This is the plug in I'm talking about.
And if you don't have it checked all ready all you need to do is put a checkmark here and then click
save user settings and it's going to tell you here that it's going to be found in the view 3D edit mode.
And on the tool shelf.
So what that tells us is that in this 3-D view on the tool shelf over here this will be available in
edit mode Well we don't really want it if we go into edit mode here we collapse our character.
Granted I can now see the beast services plug in here.
So we don't want to do it like this we don't want to have the character in edit mode.
What we need is a piece of Blant geometry a piece of empty geometry to begin working with.
So to do that I'm just going to go to the Create tab and create a cube.
And what I'm going to do is call this cube I'll just call this for now I'll call it Toppo because we're
we're using the real topology tools.
But then what I'll do is come over to the cube selected press the tab key to go into Edit Mode make
sure that everything is selected here by pressing a key.
And then I'm just going to press X for delete and delete all vertices.
And now it's still there as an object but it's completely empty.
There is nothing there anymore.
Right.
So it's just an empty object.
So now what we can do is turn on our grease pencil tools.
I'm going to press the end key to open up the properties panel here and on and zoom into my character
here.
And I'll come over to my grease pencil tab right over here.
So now I've got this grease pencil area over here and I've got this grease pencil there over here and
they somewhat overlap but they're also a little different.
So this honestly can be a bit confusing so what I want to be able to do is draw on the character with
my grease pencil and have the be services create geometry create polygons based on my grease pencil
lines.
So with the grease pencil I want to be able to draw on the object I want to be able to draw continuously
on the object.
So enable that.
I want to be able to draw so I'm going to enable draw.
And what that does it creates a new Greece pencil data block and it creates a new Greece.
Pencil layer slot here.
But now that I have that I've been I've chosen object I and drawn the object I want to continuously
draw on the object and I want to draw it on the surface of the object.
So I click this right here and when I click surface it turned off my draw some and I have to click draw
again.
So I'll do that.
Now I've got objects selected surface selected.
I've got a new Greece pencil data block and a grease pencil layer.
I should be able to now while my read Toppo is in edit mode.
Begin drawing on my character here.
So I'm going to come over here on the top and I'm going to draw a line right here.
And right up here and draw kind of a crosshatch here over his shoulder.
Like so now if I tumble around you can see that grease pencil was actually conformed to the model itself.
Now I don't want to see through the character to the grease pencil.
I can always just turn off the x ray here like that.
Now it went ahead and applied it.
I'm out of draw mode now because I clicked over here.
I could have also pressed the enter key but now that I've done that I can come over to the Tools panel
right here scroll down to my be services area and as I said with my read Toppo invisible object still
in edit mode.
If I click add surface it creates geometry based on the grease pencil lines that I drew Mamluks kind
of hard to see.
So what I can do is come over here to the object panel of the properties window here let me scroll this
down here and choose x ray.
And now I can see my geometry.
It looks to me like the normals are flipped.
Here you can see how this is kind of a darker gray than these.
This polygon should be flipped around so they're all gray.
I'm just going to select them all with a key and then press control in to recalculate the normals.
And now I should have them all gray so I'll hit the A key and you can see they're all gray now.
All right so now that I've gotten that piece drawn out what I want to do is extend this on down to where
the belt is right down here.
So I've created this piece.
I want to go ahead and create this all the way down here.
So what I can do is go back to the grease pencil.
I'll come over here to the grease pencil tab I will click on draw once again.
Let me get my character in place here.
Now click on draw once again.
And now I'm just going to draw lines like this down the character toward the waste kind of in an angle
here like this on down here
say like
this.
All right.
So what I want to do is extend this edge on down through here.
So now that I've drawn those I'll hit enter again and I'll go to edge mode and select this edge of my
object and back in the tools tab I will come over here back to the B services area and click add surface
and watch what happens.
It extends that on down through those edges.
Now that's too many edges.
So I can come over here to this tool setting this be services settings panel and reduce the number of
polygons here down to 1.
So I'm just getting one polygon for each stroke.
Right.
And you can see how it's conforming to the character here.
Let's do that again on the back now.
So I'm come around here and I think I'm a turn off x ray for now because I don't want to see through
it so I'll just uncheck this here.
So now I'm going to go back to my grease pencil tab
go here like this
and click on draw and then draw new lines bringing it down like this down the back
down here.
I could see I go down to here.
OK.
So once again I'll press enter.
Go into edge mode select this edge
then I'll go back to my tools tab.
Scroll down to be services and click add surface and there we go.
Once again it's got too many edges so I'll reduce the follow setting here down to 1 and let's turn on
x ray and take a look at it.
So there it is so I can go through the same process for this side piece over here.
Not exactly sure how that's going to work.
I could maybe would say I come off of this edge right and go down and around and come back up to this
edge.
Let's give that a try.
So back to grease pencil I'll turn off x ray here for a moment.
And I'm going to want to come off of this edge here so I could draw and I want to come off this edge
so I'll draw this and this
and just try and bring it around as best I can so that it comes around and connects maybe with this
one.
All right so I'll press enter.
Select this edge go to my services area and click add surface.
Now that I've got to this point over here I could select these four points and hit the F key and it'll
fill that face.
So now when we come back to x ray and there we have the beginnings of our belt.